The teacher is very, very important. In the Buddha's teaching, throw out the teaching.
In the Mirai teaching, or the beginning of the Buddha's teaching, middle of the Buddha's teaching,
and end of the Buddha's teaching, very early teaching, everywhere said contract the teacher,
qualified teacher.
Qualified teacher is so important.
And the teacher is also a translated teacher in Tibet. It's called the Lamas.
And that is exactly the word from Sanskrit translated.
The Sanskrit word is gurus, gurus translated as Lamas.
Sometimes in the Sanskrit language, in the Mahayan teaching, the teacher is also known as virtuous
friend.
Friend of virtuous.
In the Sanskrit, although the whole teaching is translated exactly as it is, the Sanskrit language
is called galayan matras.
It's virtuous friend. So teacher is virtuous friend. That we need this teacher.
Therefore, qualified teacher is so important.
Always in the Buddha's teaching said, teacher is so important. However, teacher is, that will
affect to you, to you.
And even use examples. Say, a big company, a company, a company, or together with a jar of course,
jar of course, jar of course, we become dirty.
Every company with white or conch shell, we been say cleans, cleans.
So, teacher is very important for that.
And so therefore, qualified teacher, that's what the Torah of the teaching said, qualified teacher.
There's qualified teacher, qualified students.
Both are qualified, have you got that?
If you don't have the qualified teacher, in what in the teaching said, that you are jumping from
the cliffs, already we in the samsara, realize, thinking of the we got something, save heaven,
reality, we are jumping to the cliffs.
So, unqualified, contented, unqualified teacher is jumping from the cliffs.
Also, accepting unqualified student is like drinking poisons.
Teacher is drinking poisons.
Generally, student means disciple means according to Buddha teaching is known as lineage holders.
Lineage holder of all of you are lineage holder of the Buddha teaching.
One of the Buddha teaching said, souls of every you, but we joined, this is the great master, Sh
anti, there was teaching, praise.
Souls of every you and peace is teaching of the Buddha or something.
And every time we joined.
And then holder of the teachings, may they remain long life of fame, long lives.
Not that holder of the teachings, not just one isolated of few groups.
The all, every one who holds the teaching.
What is teaching?
Teaching is a scripture and a realization.
Of practicing, know something of the Buddha teaching and practice the meaning of that teaching.
So, that is known as lineage holders.
You hold that teaching.
So, instead, think you become the lineage holder and he will destroy the teaching.
Said, unqualified student is drinking as poisons.
Posen.
So, therefore, qualified student, teacher and qualified students.
What are extensively determined is the Buddha teaching.
Teachings, all that.
Think, talking about the spiritual friend or the virtuous friend.
If the Buddha is generally called larger level everything, there is four kinds of teachers.
Those are known as Sepulchre teachers, Namakaya teachers, high Bodhisattva teachers, regular only
teachers.
This is what we are talking of the qualified teacher and naughty.
That is regular teachers, only beings, only teachers, regular purpose teachers.
What is regular teacher?
What the great master Buddha said and that was summarized by the great master.
You all heard his name and me to include me.
I heard the name known as the great master, Maitriya.
Maitriya that was going to come to future Buddha.
And Maitriya is teaching that which is bought by great master.
Master has come to this human world and he bought five tricks or five different teachings of the M
aitriya.
And one of those got Sutra Alankara, the ornament of the Sutra.
That means all the condensative meaning of the Sutras.
Meaning of Sutras.
In that teaching, say the qualified, basic qualified teacher of the Mahayana, also the Mahayana too
.
There is ten qualifications of that teacher.
So I will list those ten and then go and let me know all of each of them.
And the fourth is, how that says, gentle.
The first is gentle.
The second is peaceful and very peaceful.
And better understanding.
The fourth is better understanding.
Better understanding.
And joyful effort.
And reach of the knowledges.
Reach of the knowledges.
And a realization of them.
Something realizations.
Realization of them.
And excellent or good presenters.
One who presents to teach, good presenters.
Good presenters.
And then compassion.
And then not tired or bored.
That means more patience.
More patience.
So I think, I believe there is ten.
So that is ten.
Qualification of the good qualified teacher.
Fourth is what?
Gentle needs, the one who has good understanding or good maintaining of the good conduct,
is not become wild conduct.
Very gentle. Gentle maintaining very good moralities.
That is truth.
And the second is peaceful.
Mind is peaceful with mindfulness and alertness.
Some good, some relief of the concentrations.
Second. And very peaceful means, again, some relief of the realization of the westerns.
So that means what in Buddhism we call?
There is three extra oldage trainings.
Trainings, morality, concentration and the westerns.
Some realizations at that point.
Some different realizations.
So that means.
Then, next one is better understanding.
We need a little better understanding than the students.
That, not only lower than the student, but better understanding of the word subject.
All better understanding of the teaching.
And then, always have some effort to help to the teaching, to help to the others.
And then, next one is understanding of the, more understanding of the teachings.
Such as Vinaya teaching, Abhidharma teaching, Suttara teaching.
Already have the reach of the, reach of the knowledges.
Knowledges.
And then, not just only talking that, but some really practicing.
So some realizations, some understanding, some realizations.
And then also, when presenting the teaching, also presenting the teaching,
according to the situation, circumstances and the order, desire of the students or the audience.
Present that quite nicely.
And so, good presenters.
And the next one is, then, and have compassion.
Compassion, all the body, to the old, every, all the beings, all some duty of compassion.
And allowing kindness, all the body is.
There is all that.
There will be that.
And then, to be happy to the other beings, not for the teaching, to teach again and again,
or whatever, explaining those, not bored and tired in some patients.
And how many times it comes?
Ten.
So that is known as qualification of the teaching.
Good qualification of the teaching.
Generally, as I said, only the teacher is not something that we can find, but the teacher.
But the teacher, but the teacher considering...